How to handle test failures - pytest documentation 

 Contents 

 Menu 

 Expand 

 Light mode 

 Dark mode 

 Auto light/dark, in light mode 

 Auto light/dark, in dark mode 

 Skip to content 

 pytest documentation 

 Get Started 
 How-to guides 
 How to invoke pytest 
 How to write and report assertions in tests 
 How to use fixtures 
 How to mark test functions with attributes 
 How to parametrize fixtures and test functions 
 How to use subtests 
 How to use temporary directories and files in tests 
 How to monkeypatch/mock modules and environments 
 How to run doctests 
 How to re-run failed tests and maintain state between test runs 
 How to handle test failures 
 Managing pytest’s output 
 How to manage logging 
 How to capture stdout/stderr output 
 How to capture warnings 
 How to use skip and xfail to deal with tests that cannot succeed 
 How to install and use plugins 
 Writing plugins 
 Writing hook functions 
 How to use pytest with an existing test suite 
 How to use unittest -based tests with pytest 
 How to implement xunit-style set-up 
 How to set up bash completion 

 Reference guides 
 API Reference 
 Fixtures reference 
 Configuration 
 Exit codes 
 Pytest Plugin List 

 Explanation 
 Anatomy of a test 
 About fixtures 
 Good Integration Practices 
 pytest import mechanisms and sys.path / PYTHONPATH 
 Typing in pytest 
 CI Pipelines 
 Flaky tests 

 Examples and customization tricks 
 Demo of Python failure reports with pytest 
 Basic patterns and examples 
 Parametrizing tests 
 Working with custom markers 
 A session-fixture which can look at all collected tests 
 Changing standard (Python) test discovery 
 Working with non-python tests 
 Using a custom directory collector 

 About the project 
 
 Changelog 
 Contributing 
 Backwards Compatibility Policy 
 History 
 Python version support 
 Sponsor 
 pytest for enterprise 
 License 
 Contact channels 
 
 Useful links 
 
 pytest @ PyPI 
 pytest @ GitHub 
 Issue Tracker 
 PDF Documentation 

 Back to top 

 How to handle test failures ¶ 
 
 Stopping after the first (or N) failures ¶ 
 To stop the testing process after the first (N) failures: 
 pytest -x # stop after first failure 
pytest --maxfail = 2 # stop after two failures 

 Using pdb — The Python Debugger with pytest ¶ 
 
 Dropping to pdb on failures ¶ 
 Python comes with a builtin Python debugger called pdb . pytest 
allows one to drop into the pdb prompt via a command line option: 
 pytest --pdb

 This will invoke the Python debugger on every failure (or KeyboardInterrupt).
Often you might only want to do this for the first failing test to understand
a certain failure situation: 
 pytest -x --pdb # drop to PDB on first failure, then end test session 
pytest --pdb --maxfail = 3 # drop to PDB for first three failures 

 Note that on any failure the exception information is stored on
 sys.last_value , sys.last_type and sys.last_traceback . In
interactive use, this allows one to drop into postmortem debugging with
any debug tool. One can also manually access the exception information,
for example: 
 import sys 
 sys . last_traceback . tb_lineno 
 42 
 sys . last_value 
 AssertionError( assert result == ok ,) 

 Dropping to pdb at the start of a test ¶ 
 pytest allows one to drop into the pdb prompt immediately at the start of each test via a command line option: 
 pytest --trace

 This will invoke the Python debugger at the start of every test. 

 Setting breakpoints ¶ 
 To set a breakpoint in your code use the native Python import pdb;pdb.set_trace() call
in your code and pytest automatically disables its output capture for that test: 
 
 Output capture in other tests is not affected. 
 Any prior test output that has already been captured and will be processed as
such. 
 Output capture gets resumed when ending the debugger session (via the
 continue command). 

 Using the builtin breakpoint function ¶ 
 Python 3.7 introduces a builtin breakpoint() function.
Pytest supports the use of breakpoint() with the following behaviours: 

 When breakpoint() is called and PYTHONBREAKPOINT is set to the default value, pytest will use the custom internal PDB trace UI instead of the system default Pdb . 
 When tests are complete, the system will default back to the system Pdb trace UI. 
 With --pdb passed to pytest, the custom internal Pdb trace UI is used with both breakpoint() and failed tests/unhandled exceptions. 
 --pdbcls can be used to specify a custom debugger class. 

 Fault Handler ¶ 
 
 Added in version 5.0. 
 
 The faulthandler standard module
can be used to dump Python tracebacks on a segfault or after a timeout. 
 The module is automatically enabled for pytest runs, unless the -p no:faulthandler is given
on the command-line. 
 Also the faulthandler_timeout=X configuration option can be used
to dump the traceback of all threads if a test takes longer than X 
seconds to finish. 
 
 Note 
 This functionality has been integrated from the external
 pytest-faulthandler plugin, with two
small differences: 
 
 To disable it, use -p no:faulthandler instead of --no-faulthandler : the former
can be used with any plugin, so it saves one option. 
 The --faulthandler-timeout command-line option has become the
 faulthandler_timeout configuration option. It can still be configured from
the command-line using -o faulthandler_timeout=X . 

 Warning about unraisable exceptions and unhandled thread exceptions ¶ 
 
 Added in version 6.2. 
 
 Unhandled exceptions are exceptions that are raised in a situation in which
they cannot propagate to a caller. The most common case is an exception raised
in a __del__ implementation. 
 Unhandled thread exceptions are exceptions raised in a Thread 
but not handled, causing the thread to terminate uncleanly. 
 Both types of exceptions are normally considered bugs, but may go unnoticed
because they don’t cause the program itself to crash. Pytest detects these
conditions and issues a warning that is visible in the test run summary. 
 The plugins are automatically enabled for pytest runs, unless the
 -p no:unraisableexception (for unraisable exceptions) and
 -p no:threadexception (for thread exceptions) options are given on the
command-line. 
 The warnings may be silenced selectively using the pytest.mark.filterwarnings 
mark. The warning categories are pytest.PytestUnraisableExceptionWarning and
 pytest.PytestUnhandledThreadExceptionWarning . 

 Next 
 
 Managing pytest’s output 

 Previous 

 How to re-run failed tests and maintain state between test runs 

 Copyright 2015, holger krekel and pytest-dev team
 
 Made with Sphinx and @pradyunsg 's
 
 Furo 

 On this page

 How to handle test failures 
 Stopping after the first (or N) failures 
 Using python:library/pdb with pytest 
 Dropping to pdb on failures 
 Dropping to pdb at the start of a test 
 Setting breakpoints 
 Using the builtin breakpoint function 

 Fault Handler 
 Warning about unraisable exceptions and unhandled thread exceptions